Do I need to use fabric conditioner?
Using fabric conditioner or softner is by no means compulsory, so why do you need to use fabric conditioner in the first place? There are so many great benefits in using fabric conditioner alongside your washing machine detergent, and below we have listed just a few of these benefits which can be achieved by using a good quality fabric conditioner.

It reduces creasing by lowering the friction between the fabric fibres, resulting in smoother and softer clothes.
By lowering the friction between the fabric fibres, it also makes ironing easier by allowsing the iron to be moved over the clothes with more ease and less effort.
It helps to prevent colours from fading by reducing abrasion on the fabric surface. This also further protects the fabric fibres, keeping them smooth and fuzz-free.
It reduces drying time by decreasing the amount of water absorbed by the fabric fibres during the rinse, which means the clothes are less wet at the end of the cycle.
It reduces the static charge in clothes by neutralising any charged particles and reducing the friction between fabric fibres.

How do I use fabric conditioner?
Measure the correct amount of fabric conditioner in a dosing cup. Always follow the instructions on the box or label.
Add this fabric conditioner to the conditioner compartment of the dispenser drawer before starting the wash cycle. Do not add the fabric conditioner directly into the drum, as it always needs to enter the drum diluted.
During the rinse portion of the wash cycle, water will enter the compartment, triggering the syphon to dispense the diluted fabric conditioner into the drum.
At the end of the wash cycle, be sure to clean any remaining fabric conditioner residue from the syphon by running the compartment under a hot tap.
Remember to always follow the instructions and guidance on the label of your clothing and other fabric items.

How much should I fill my washing machine?
It's very tempting to pack your washing machine drum with as many laundry items as possible, but overloading your washing machine will not just severly reduce its washing performance, but it can also cause serious damage to your appliance. Listed below are the main reasons why overloading your washing machine will cause long-term damage:

Overloading the washing machine will cause the laundry to move around in one large mass, which means the clothing items will not move be able to move freely within the drum and the detergent will not be able to circulate effectively to remove dirt and stains.
Overloading also increases the pressure within the drum, especially when it is spinning at a high velocity. This could potentially cause damage to the drum bearings and worse still cause the glass door to shatter.
The clothes are forced up against the rubber door seal, and as the drum rotates it causes the clothes to rub up against it. This can lead to marks and even tears in your clothing.

How to load a washing machine ?
When filling up your washing machine drum, it is important to strike the right balance between filling up the drum with enough clothes for economical washing, and leaving enough of a gap at the top of the drum for an effective washing performance.

For the best washing results, there has to be enough water for the detergent to dissolve in and enough space for your clothes to move around. If you overload the drum, there will be less water available for the detergent to dissolve in as the clothes will soak this up. We therefore recommend that you leave a hands width gap at the top of the washing machine drum when loading. This roughly equates to filling 3/4 of the drum.

Remember not to under load the washing machine drum either, as this is uneconomical and it may result in a loud banging noise on the spin cycle due to an unbalanced load.

Is it better to wash my clothes in cold or hot water?
When it comes to the right temperature to wash clothes, people tend to have a favourite wash programme or temperature setting on their washing machine that they repeatedly use for all their garments. But how do you know if the temperature that you have selected is the best one to use?

The reality is that selecting the correct temperature for your wash depends upon a number of different influencing factors, and below we have outlined some helpful situations in which you should use either hot water or cold water to wash your clothes and other fabrics.

Always remember to check the fabric care label attached to your clothing for the manufacturer's instructions on which temperature and wash setting to use.


When should I use hot water?
For particularly dirty clothes, such as sweaty workout clothes, socks and underwear, a hot water wash is the best option to ensure that your clothes will be clean and odour-free the next day.
Hot water is effective at killing off any bacteria and germs, so if you have any infected clothes, towels and bed linens, a hot wash is the best option to disinfect them.
White and lighter coloured clothes clothes can be washed in warm to hot water as there is less risk of the colours running, and it's more effective at removing stubborn dirt and stains.
If you want to strike the right balance between eco-friendly washing and efficient washing performance, use a warm temperature between 40°C and 60°C which is great all-round choice for most clothing items, such as jeans and moderately stained garments.

When should I use cold water?
For clothes which are only lightly soiled and stained, you can use a cold temperature wash without dramatically effecting the cleaning performance of your washing machine. The good news is that most modern detergents are still effective at lower temperatures such as 30°C.
For brightly coloured or dark clothes, use a cold wash as this will help prevent the colours from fading, discolouring and bleeding out onto other clothing.
For delicate fabrics, such as wool and silk, use a cold wash to protect the fabric fibres from damage and shrinking. We strongly advise you to read the label on your clothing items as this will indicate the correct temperature and setting to wash them.
Hot water washing uses a considerable amount of energy, which is produced by electricity which is in turn generated by the burning of fossil fuels. By lowering your wash temperatures on a regular basis, you will save more energy which helps protect the envirmonment and helps you save money.

How do I wash trainers in my washing machine?
Bosch has got all the information you need to know about washing trainers in the washing machine the right way. Cleaning trainers by hand is hard work, especially if they are heavily stained and covered in mud, but most people are unaware that it is perfectly okay to wash many different types of trainers in the washing machine with great results.

In this guide we've outlined what types of trainer materials are suitable to be washed in the washing machine and have included a step-by-step guide that teaches you the correct way to wash your trainers in the washing machine.

Can I wash my trainers in the washing machine?
Shoes that are made from animal products such as leather or suede can sustain water damage from being washed in a washing machine. On the other hand, trainers that are made from synthetic materials like nylon and polyester are more hard-wearing and can therefore withstand multiple washes in a washing machine.

However, it is very important to follow the instructions found on the care label attached to your trainers, which will determine whether or not your trainers are suitable to be washed in a washing machine. If the care label on your trainers advises against machine washing, then an alternative washing method will be recommended, such as hand washing.

Step by step guide
Follow the step by step guide below to wash trainers in your washing machine the right way.


Step one
Remove the laces from your trainers and scrub off any excess mud or dirt from the surface using an old toothbrush or a wire brush. This will allow the washing machine to clean away any remaining dirt on your trainers more effectively.


Step two
Ideally put your trainers and its laces inside a wash bag and then place this in the washing machine drum. This will prevent the trainers from becoming trapped on the inside of the drum, especially between the rubber door seal.


Step three
To reduce the noise from the trainers banging against the drum, it is advisable to add a few towels into the drum along with your trainers. This will help soften the impact of the trainers hitting against the drum by providing a layer of protection.


Step four
Wash your trainers using a cold water temperature to prevent the colours from fading and bleeding out. Additionally, use a high quality colour detergent, which should be added to the drum in a dosing ball with your trainers prior to starting the wash.

Can I dry my trainers in the tumble dryer?
After washing your trainers in the washing machine, it might be quite tempting to pop them straight in the tumble dryer to get them dried out quickly. However, we would strongly advise against this, as the heat from the tumble dryer can cause considerable damage to trainers by melting the glue, leaving them vulnerable to breaking. A better idea is to air dry your trainers outside, so long as it is not raining! This will also ensure that your trainers are dried in the correct shape so that they will remain comfortable to wear.

What do the laundry symbols mean?
Laundry symbols, or care symbols, are icons which represent a wide variety of washing, drying and ironing methods, which are commonly found on clothing labels and tags. Their purpose is to instruct consumers on how a particular item of clothing should be cleaned, dried and ironed so as to avoid damage being caused to the fabric.

Because there are a variety of laundry symbols out there, it can get very confusing and it can be difficult to work out what each laundry symbol means without clarification. Luckily we have provided below a picture of the most important European laundry symbols and an explanation of what they represent, so that you are able to easily recognize them the next time you check the label on your clothing items.

How do I keep my whites white?
Using too much or too little detergent in your washing machine can lead to poor washing results. When it comes to using the correct dosage of detergent, there are three key facts to consider.

The amount of dirt in the washing. The more dirty the clothes are, the more detergent that's needed to remove it. You may not see it, but approximately 70% of dirt on clothes comes from the body, such as skin, sweat, grease and other bodily fluids. Only 30% of dirt on clothes comes from external sources, such as food, mud, grass, lotions and creams.
The size of the washing load. Detergent dosage instructions are based upon a washing machine's drum size, and for good reason. The larger the washing load, the more dirt introduced and therefore the more detergent that's needed to remove it.
The water hardness level in your area. Hard water contains a high concentration of minerals which need to be softened and neutralised for more effective cleaning results. It's for this reason that detergent manufacturers recommend using slightly more detergent than normal in hard water areas.

How do I separate my clothes for wash?
Not all clothes consist of the same fabric type or the same colour dyes, so it is important that you separate your clothes according to both fabric type and colour to avoid potential damage being caused to them. Below we have outlined how to sort your laundry into these two groups and why it is so important. Remember to always read the instructions on the care labels for your clothing items.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           . According to colour
Sorting the laundry according to colour will help to ensure that clothing items are not ruined from dye bleeding out during a wash cycle. The table below shows which colours should be washed together.


Colour	
Explanation

Colour	
Explanation
Whites	This load should contain pure white clothing only which should not contain any designs, labels or patterns.
Coloureds	This load is reserved for more pastel coloured clothes such as pinks, lavenders, light blues, light greens and yellows. Also add to this load any white clothes which contain designs, labels or patterns.
Darks	Clothes which are gray, navy, red, dark purple, black and other similar colours are sorted into this load.
According to laundry symbol
As well as sorting your laundry according to colour, you should also closely follow the clothing manufacturer's instructions on the label which will tell you exactly how they should be sorted and washed.


Laundry symbol	
Washing method or setting	
Explanation

Laundry symbol	
Washing method or setting	
Explanation



55°C - 95°C
Cotton / coloureds	Normal hard-wearing fabrics such as towels and bed linen.



30°C - 60°C
Easy-care	Fabrics made of fibre blends such as shirts and trousers.



20°C - 40°C
Delicates	Delicate fabrics such as high-quality lingerie and sportswear.



10°C - 30°C
Hand wash / woollens	Delicate fabrics such as cashmere jumpers.



Do not wash	Fabrics with this label are only to be dry cleaned.

How do I install my washing machine?
You can install a freestanding washing machine with our simple guidance below, but if you are unsure you should always consult a qualified professional. Get in touch with us if you need extra support. Please do not use the information below as a substitute for the information contained in your installation manual.



Step by step guide
Remove the transit bolts and replace them with the blanks provided.
Connect the cold water pipe to the cold water tap, and connect the wate water pipe to either a stand pipe or to a connection under the sink. Ensure there are no kinks in either pipe.
Plug the appliance into a standard socket and check the appliance is level using a spirit level. If not, raise or lower the feet as necessary.
Switch the appliance on, run a rinse programme and check for any leaks. If none are found, push the appliance into it's final position.


Moving a washing machine
Need help moving your Bosch washing machine safely? Whether you are moving home or reorganising your home, let us help with our quick guide on moving and transporting your appliance.

Washing machine
What to consider before moving
Ensure that your appliance will fit in the new area by measuring its height, width and depth.
Prepare a bucket nearby to help drain away any excess water from the hoses before starting the move.
Check that there is nothing obstructing your way, and that there is nothing left inside the drum of your washing machine.
If you are transporting the appliance long-distance, for example when moving home, we recommend that you replace the appliance’s transit bolts to keep the drum secured.
Disconnect the appliance
Switch off the appliance and disconnect it from the mains. Then, disconnect the hoses connecting the appliance to the water supply. Use the bucket you prepared to drain any excess water from the hoses.

Securely strap the appliance
Before beginning the move, check that there is nothing obstructing your way, and that the area where you will place your appliance is clean. Remember, the washing machine is a heavy appliance, so if you feel unsure about the move, you can always contact a professional mover for help.

When transporting your washing machine, we recommend applying blankets to the side of the appliance so you prevent any damage. If you are moving your appliance using an appliance trolley, ensure that it has been securely strapped before loading. Once loaded, keep the appliance in an upright position to prevent damage.

What to do after the move
Once you have safely moved your appliance, be sure that you complete the following:

Remove the transit bolts (if you had previously reapplied them).
Check that the machine is level.
Reconnect all hoses, and plug the appliance back into the mains. If you are unsure how to install your appliance, click here.

Which washing machines and tumble dryers match together?
If you are looking to stack a matching Bosch tumble dryer on top of a matching Bosch washing machine, you should buy both from the same Serie number and they will look and fit perfectly together.

Is it safe to install a stacking kit?
Yes, if it is done correctly. Installing a stacking kit will require two people to lift the tumble dryer safely as well as someone to operate the drill to secure them together. It is best to get a qualified service professional to do this for you.

Do you need to drill a stacking kit into the appliance?
Yes, Bosch stacking kits require drilling in to ensure they are safely secured. Stacking kits that use bands could deteriorate and move over time increasing the risk of the tumble dryer detaching.

Do stacking kits invalidate my warranty?
No. Using one of our stacking kits will not invalidate your warranty.

Do you need a stacking kit for washer and dryer?
If you want to stack a Bosch tumble dryer on top of a Bosch washing machine, you must use a compatible stacking kit to ensure that they will not damage the appliance, invalidate the warranty, or cause injury.

Washing Machine Display Symbols
Below are the explanations of symbols you might find on your washing machine display.

Childproof Lock
Childproof lock symbol
When the child lock is activated, all the washing machine buttons will be disabled. To deactivate, press and hold the start button or the key symbol button for three to five seconds. After this time the key symbol will disappear.

Start/Reload
Start reload symbol
Use the button to pause the running cycle and open the door to simply reload forgotten items into the drum and continue the wash. (Not possible on washes over 50°C)

Water Consumption
Water consumption symbol
This washing machine symbol indicates the water consumption for the selected programme. Low is shown as one dash, high is shown with 5 dashes.

Energy Consumption
Energy consumption symbol
This washing machine symbol indicates the energy consumption for the selected programme. Low is shown as one dash, high is shown with 5 dashes.

Prewash
Prewash symbol
A low temperature cycle before the main wash. Can be activated or deactivated. Ideal for washing heavily soiled laundry.

Washing
Washing symbol
The programme process is shown as washing.

Soaking
Soaking symbol
Before the main wash cycle starts, the laundry remains in the water for longer. Ideal for laundry with particularly stubborn soiling.

Spin Speed
Spin speed symbol
The programme is shown as spinning. Depending on what stage the programme is in, you can change the spin speed before and during the programme.

Easy Iron
Easy iron symbol
Reduces creasing in the laundry by adapting the spin cycle and the spin speed. The laundry is damp enough after washing that it needs to be hung out on a washing line.

Rinse
Rinse symbol
The programme process is shown as rinsing.

Extra Rinse
Extra rinse symbol
Up to three additional rinse cycles can be activated or deactivated. It is recommended to use for particularly sensitive skin or in regions with very soft water.

Rinse Hold
Rinse hold symbol
The laundry will remain in the water after the last rinse cycle. Activate or deactivate spinning and draining at the end of the washing cycle.

Adding Laundry
Adding laundry symbol
If this symbol goes out on the display panel, it is possible to add more laundry.

Silent Wash
Silent wash symbol
The audible signal at the end of programme is deactivated and the final spin speed is reduced.

Intensive Plus
Intensive plus symbol
The programme duration is extended by up to 30 minutes. Suitable for heavily soiled laundry.

AntiStain
AntiStain symbol
Use this washing machine symbol to select the type of stain. The temperature, drum movement and soaking time are all adjusted to suit the type of stain.

Water Plus
Water plus symbol
Wash with more water. Recommended for particularly sensitive skin and for treating laundry more gently.

i-Dos
idos droplet symbol
You can change the settings for automatic detergent dosing before the washing programme starts and during pre-wash.

Light: For lightly soiled laundry
Medium: For normally soiled laundry
Heavy: For particularly heavy soiling and/ or staining

i-Dos
idos flower symbol
Fabric softener dosage for a medium level of softness.

Light: For slightly soft laundry
Medium: For laundry with a medium level of softness
Heavy: For particularly soft laundry

Drum Clean
Drum clean symbol
If there are odours in the washing machine or drum, run a Drum clean programme with no clothing in.

Memory Programme
Memory programme symbol
You can save a selected programme with your favourite settings here. Simply select a programme and change it to your desired settings, press and hold the symbol for 3 seconds and the programme will be saved.

Remote Start
Remote start symbol
If you briefly press the button, the appliance will be enabled for remote start via the Home Connect app If you press the button for approx. 3 seconds, the Home Connect menu opens.

Foam Detection
Foam detection symbol
If this washing machine symbol lights up in the display panel, the appliance has detected too much foam during the wash cycle and will automatically activate an additional rinse cycle to remove the foam.

Tip: Add less detergent to the next washing cycle with the same load.

Tap
Tap symbol
The water pressure is too low or the supply hose is blocked or kinked. For more information, find out more here.

Washing Machine Features

Which is the detergent drawer?
A = liquid detergent flap

II = Detergent for the main wash, water softener, bleach, stain remover Compartment

Flower = Fabric softener, liquid starch; Do not exceed max. mark

I = Detergent for prewash

*not specific to all models


Washing machine is not turning on
If there is a fault with your washing machine you may find that you can't turn the washing machine unit on. Below you can find possible fixes for this issue. However, if the problem still persists, you can book an appointment for one of our trained and qualified Bosch engineers to visit your home and fix your washing machine themselves.

No power going to the washing machine
washing machine wont turn on
If there are no lights displaying on the washing machine, firstly check that the plug is properly inserted into the socket and the switch is set to on.

If this has been established, check that the socket is providing power by plugging in another electrical product into the socket, for example a lamp. If the socket doesn't work, insert the washing machine plug into the socket next to it, if you have a double socket, and try again.

If the sockets work, check the fuse in the plug by putting the fuse into another appliance's plug or by putting a new fuse which you know works into the washing machine's plug. Make sure you use a 13 amp fuse.??

Also check whether the circuit breaker has tripped. If necessary, contact an electrician.


Washing machine programme is not starting
There are a number of reasons why your washing machine won't start it's cycle. Down below, you can find a number of common solutions which should fix the problem. If none of these solutions work you may need a repair carried out by one of our qualified engineers.

washing machine won't start
The door is not locked properly
Close the door properly until you can hear an audible click. An overloaded washing machine drum may be preventing the door from being closed properly. For more information on how to fill your washing machine correctly, click the link below. Also check whether an item of washing is jammed between the door and the housing.

How much should I fill my washing machine?
The start button is held down too short or too long
To start a programme, you will need to press and hold the start button slightly longer than the other buttons on the washing machine, appoximately 1 to 2 seconds. A brief press will not be sufficient. If the button is held down too long, a double audible beep will be heard and the washing machine will not start. This prevents a programme from being started through any accidental contact with the start button.

Washing machine is not spinning
On rare occasions, you may find that your washing machine fails to spin. Down below we have outlined two quick ways to remedy the problem and get your washing machine back to top performance. Scroll down to watch our video explanation.

Clean the drain pump


The issue could be prompted by a pump blockage. To clean the pump, follow the instructions below, or see the video:

Turn the appliance off.
Pull out the mains plug.
Open and remove the service flap.
Drain off all water using a drainage hose or by removing the pump cover slowly.
Clean the interior, the thread and the housing of the pump so that the impeller is able to rotate.
Refit the pump cover and screw back firmly.
To check the pump for leakage and the power of the pump, pour 1 litre of water into the detergent drawer.
Check for any leakage.
If the pump is sealed watertight, start the pumping programme.
If this does not work, check the drain hose using the instructions below.

The washing machine hoses are kinked or blocked
If your washing machine is not spinning properly, or not spinning at all, the issue could be a blocked or a kinked waste water hose. Follow the steps below to check if this is the issue.

Turn the appliance off.
Pull out the mains plug.
Check that the drainage hose has been installed correctly without any kinks.
Before loosening the hose clip on the siphon, place a bucket under the tap to avoid spills.
Carefully remove the drainage hose and pour the remaining water out of the drainage hose into the bucket.
Clean the drainage hose and the connecting piece of the siphon.
Hold the drainage hose in the bucket.
Select the "Drain" programme.
Connect the drainage hose to the siphon.
Check whether the drain hose is watertight.
If this does not work, and you have already tried cleaning the drain pump, please book an engineer to repair your washing machine.


Washing machine filter is blocked
A foreign object is blocking the filter or impeller
Clean the filter and remove any foreign objects which could be blocking the impeller. For more information on how to clean your washing machine filter, click the link below.


Washing machine is not filling with water


Check that there are no kinks in the cold water fill hose and the waste water hose by pulling the appliance out slightly and untwisting any visable kinks or bends in these hoses. For more information on how to correctly install these two hoses, click the link below.

Also ensure that the waste water hose is not blocked by removing the waste water hose from the siphon connection, putting the end of the hose in a bucket and selecting the drain programme. If there is a blockage, water will not fill, or struggle to fill, the bucket. If a blockage is found, clean the waste water hose and siphon.

How to install a washing machine
Check the water pressure
To check the water pressure, simply follow the instructions below.

Place a bucket under the water tap.
Run the water. Approximately 10 litres of water per minute should come out.
If the water pressure is too low, less water will be discharged.
If this is the case, please contact your plumber who will be able to resolve the issue.

Why is my washing machine leaking?
There are several reasons for your washing machine leaking water, and the specific area the water is leaking from is usually a good indication of what is causing the leak. Have a look at our self-help information below to resolve a variety of washing machine leaking problems.

water leaking out of washing machine
Water is leaking at the front of the washing machine
If water is pooling at the front of the appliance, the leak could be coming from either the door, the detergent drawer or the washing machine filter area (the bottom of the appliance).

Always make sure the door is firmly shut before starting a cycle. You should hear an audible click to indicate this. Check that there are no clothes stuck between the door and the housing that could be preventing the door from shutting properly, and be sure not to overfill the washing machine drum. Also ensure the appliance is sitting level to the ground.

Clean and inspect the rubber seal
Maintaining a clean rubber seal is important in order to prevent any damage to it, which could lead to leaks.

Simply clean the rubber seal and the door, ensuring that all fluff and detergent residue is removed from the contact area between the rubber seal and the appliance door.

For more information on cleaning the seal, click the link below.

Cleaning a washing machine door seal
bosch washing rubber seal
why is my washing machine leaking
Correct the dose of detergent used
Excessive foam may be produced if you wash laundry or curtains that are lightly soiled. If you use water with a low hardness level, or are washing only lightly soiled laundry, using a low dose of detergent is recommended.

Please refer to the recommended dose instructions provided on the detergent packaging to avoid any leaks.

Water is leaking at the back of the washing machine
If water is leaking at the back of the appliance, it is likely that either the cold water fill hose or the waste water hose is responsible. Check to make sure that these hoses are properly connected to the washing machine and the cold water tap and waste water outlet respectively.

washing machine leak
water leaking out of washing machine
Water is leaking underneath the appliance
Water that is leaking directly underneath the appliance could potentially be the result of any of the causes outlined above, so it is important to carry out all of the checks mentioned above.

However, if you have carried out all of these checks and the leak persists, this could indicate a more serious internal leak which requires an inspection by a trained and qualified Bosch engineer.

Drum is not turning
If the washing machine drum is not spinning during a programme, this could be completely intentional and normal appliance behaviour. Depending on the programme which you have selected, there are phases where there is limited or no drum movement at all, for example when washing woollens or when excess foam has been detected. To assure everything is correct, you can carry out a few simple checks. Simply follow the steps shown below or in the video.

Clean the water inlet filter


Disconnect the appliance.
Turn off the water tap.
Prepare a large bucket and place it under the tap in case water comes out.
Remove the hose from the tap.
Pour the remaining water from the hose into the bucket.
Clean the filters gently with a small brush.
For appliances without AquaStop, be sure to remove the hose from the back of the appliance.
Take the filter out with pair of pliers and clean it thoroughly.
Place back the hose and check for leaks.
Check the water pressure
To check the water pressure, simply follow the instructions below.

Place a bucket under the water tap.
Run the water. Approximately 10 litres of water per minute should come out.
If the water pressure is too low, less water will be discharged.
If this is the case, please contact your plumber who will be able to resolve the issue.


The carbon brushes are worn out
Another component which can be responsible for a washing machine drum not turning is the carbon brushes. If the drum is not turning when filled with water or during the spin cycle, this can indicate that the carbon brushes are worn out which requires a repair by a trained and qualified Bosch engineer.

Washing machine door is not opening or closing
On occasion, you may find that your Bosch washing machine door will not open or close.

Below, we have listed the most common reasons for your machine door being jammed along with quick fix solutions which will allow you to return your washing machine back to normal functionality.

bosch child lock is activated
The child lock has been activated
If the washing machine door is not opening, this may be caused by the child lock which you will need to deactivate.

For more information on how to do this, click the link below.

Washing machine child lock is activated
Clothes caught between the door and the housing
A problem with the door both opening and closing properly can be caused by clothes, especially smaller garments such as socks. These can get jammed between the door and the washing machine housing. Ensure that there are no clothes caught between the door and the housing before starting a programme.

clothes caught in washing machine door
washing machine drum is overloaded
The washing machine drum is overloaded
An overloaded washing machine drum can also prevent the door from being closed properly. You may need to take some clothes out of the drum prior to starting a programme.

For more information on how to fill your washing machine correctly, click the link below.

How much should I fill my washing machine?
There is a fault with the door lock
If the causes outlined above have been checked and they are not responsible for the door not opening or closing, this could indicate a problem with the door lock where it is not engaging the door latch, meaning that you won't be able to start a programme. This is not a fault that you can repair yourself and will require a repair by a trained and qualified Bosch engineer.

Washing machine vibrates and moves
You may find that your Bosch washing machine is vibrating and moving in it's position. This can cause unwanted noise and damage to your washer and kitchen surfaces. Below we have outlined the most common fixes to this problem.

If the problem persists, you may need to book a repair with one of our Bosch engineers.



Appliance standing on an unsuitable surface
Issues with the washing machine vibrating and moving across the floor can be attributed to the surface on which it is installed. Wooden floors are particularly unsuitable. Ideally you should install your washing machine in the corner of a room on a hard surface. If necessary, screw a water-resistant wooden board with a minimum thickness of 30mm and place the appliance on the board.

Remove the transportation bolts from your washing machine
Check that the transportation bolts have been removed from the back of your washing machine. If they have not, you should remove these immediately and replace them with the blanks that came with your machine. You can refer to the installation instructions for support. The video on the left details how you can remove and replace the transit bolts on your washing machine.




Level your washing machine
Washing machines that are not balanced can result in loud thumping or knocking sounds, especially when operating at high speeds. To remove these loud noises, check the feet to ensure that the washing machine is evenly balanced and resting on a flat surface. Also check that the washing machine is parallel to the ground by using a spirit level. If it is not level, adjust the feet accordingly and tighten them in place. To level your appliance:

Place a spirit level on the appliance.
Turn the feet on the appliance until the spirit level is aligned.
Secure the feet with the lock nuts by following the instructions in the installation guide.
If the appliance is standing on a base, secure the feet with the clip holders. The clip holders are available as an accessory.

Washing machine is over foaming

The most common reasons for a washing machine over foaming are using too much detergent and not using a quality detergent. We would therefore recommend for you to use the correct amount of detergent for your washing load as per the recommended guidelines found in your instruction manual, and also use a good quality detergent.

Washing machine trips the electrics
washing machine trips electric
There are multiple causes which can result in a washing machine tripping the electrics, such as the motor, the heater, the supressor, a wire shorting out, or water leaking onto an electric part. It can therefore be difficult to determine exactly which cause is responsible without professional help.

The first thing to do is to reset the RCD and to replace the fuse in the plug. After doing this, if the washing machine is still tripping the electrics or it is now no longer working, this will require an inspection and repair by a trained and qualified Bosch engineer

Why is my washing machine making strange noises?
All washing machines make low level noise during a wash programme which is completely normal and not a cause for concern. However, there are some loud noises which may indicate there is an issue with the washing machine and they need to be solved promptly.

Squealing, screeching, banging, knocking, bumping, scratching, and rumbling are some of the more common noises that can come from a faulty washing machine. If your washing machine is making strange and loud noises, there are 3 simple steps you can take to resolve these quickly and easily without the need for a Bosch engineer to repair your washing machine.



Appliance standing on an unsuitable surface
Issues with the washing machine vibrating and moving across the floor can be attributed to the surface on which it is installed. Wooden floors are particularly unsuitable. Ideally you should install your washing machine in the corner of a room on a hard surface. If necessary, screw a water-resistant wooden board with a minimum thickness of 30mm and place the appliance on the board.

Remove the transportation bolts from your washing machine
Check that the transportation bolts have been removed from the back of your washing machine. If they have not, you should remove these immediately and replace them with the blanks that came with your machine. You can refer to the installation instructions for support. The video on the right shows you how to remove and replace the transit bolts.




Level your washing machine
Washing machines that are not balanced can result in loud thumping or knocking sounds, especially when operating at high speeds. To remove these loud noises, check the feet to ensure that the washing machine is evenly balanced and resting on a flat surface. Also check that the washing machine is parallel to the ground by using a spirit level. If it is not level, adjust the feet accordingly and tighten them in place. To level your appliance:

Place a spirit level on the appliance.
Turn the feet on the appliance until the spirit level is aligned.
Secure the feet with the lock nuts by following the instructions in the installation guide.
If the appliance is standing on a base, secure the feet with the clip holders. The clip holders are available as an accessory.

Contact Bosch Customer Service

Contact Centre
Our contact centre is open Monday to Friday between 8am and 8pm, Saturday and Sunday between 8am and 5:30pm, and Bank Holidays between 9am and 4pm.

Call 0344 892 8979


WhatsApp
Our customer service team are available to help and support you on WhatsApp Monday to Friday between 8am and 5pm, excluding Bank Holidays.

WhatsApp


Social Media
You can reach out to our customer service team on Facebook, X and Instagram Monday to Friday between 8am and 5pm, excluding Bank Holidays.